Praise and Prayer to the Five Families of Mañjuśrī
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om wakyédam namah
oṃ vākyedaṃ namaḥ
sangye kün gyi ku chenpo
Great body of all the buddhas,
yeshe ku té kü wangchuk
Wisdom body, sovereign body,
jampal drima mepé ku
Mañjuśrī, immaculate in form,
chok jin dorjér chaktsal tö
Vajra granter of boons, to you I offer homage and praise.

om wagi shvari mum
oṃ vāgiśvara muṃ
dakmé sengé dra dangden
Striking fear into deer-like heretics
mutek ridak ngen jikpa
With the lion’s roar of selflessness.1
küntu drowé dön tönpé
You reveal the universal meaning,
sung gi wangchuk chaktsal tö
Master of speech, to you I offer homage and praise.

om arapatsana dhih
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
drowé marmé yeshe drön
A light for beings, a lantern unto wisdom,
ziji chenpo ösalwa
With energy supreme, most radiant,2
küntu tokpa tamché pang
Entirely free from any form of concept.3
jampal dorjér chaktsal tö
Mañjuvajra, to you I offer homage and praise.

om benza tikshana duhkha tséda prajna jnana murtta yé jnana kaya wagi shara arapatsana ya té
namah
oṃ vajratīkṣṇa duḥkha chheda prajñā jñāna mūrtaye | jñāna-kāya-vāgiśvara arapacanāyate namaḥ
dön sum tetsom chöpé lo
His thinking free from doubt, his object threefold,
kün dön yönten sum gyi dak
His object all, three properties by nature.4
sangye changchub lanamé
The buddha’s unsurpassed awakening,5
yönten tayé chaktsal tö
Limitless Qualities, to you I offer homage and praise.

om hrih dhih mamé dipam mandzushri mum hrih pradznya wardhani hrih dhih soha
oṃ hrīḥ mame dīpaṃ mañjuśrī mūṃ hrīḥ prajñā vardhani hrīḥ dhīḥ svāhā
mawé sengé tsukpamé
The unassailable, the lion of speech,6
küntu tawé chok tu ga
With universal vision, true delight,
ziji trengwa ta na duk
With fire garlands, handsome to behold,7
chö kyi gyaltsen chaktsal tö
Dharma Banner of Victory, to you I offer homage and praise.

om mandzushri jnana sata hung
oṃ mañjuśrī-jñāna-satva-hūṃ
dangpö sangye gyu mepa
Primordial buddha, who’s devoid of any cause,
yeshe mik chik drima mé
With wisdom as his only eye, unstained,
yeshe lüchen dezhin shek
Tathāgata, with wisdom as his body,8
kyilkhor wangchuk chaktsal tö
Lord of the maṇḍala, to you I offer homage and praise.

jampal rik ngé lhatsok la
Through the merit of paying homage and praising
chaktsal töpé sönam kyi
The hosts of deities of the five families of Mañjuśrī,
marik münpa kün sel né
May the darkness of ignorance be entirely dispelled
khyen nyinang ba gyepar shok
And the light of twofold knowledge always shine.

This praise based on the definitive tantraWas written by one called Chökyi Lodrö,In response
to a request from Amdo Lama,Accompanied by a silken scarf and vessel.

Śubham.

| Translated by by Adam Pearcey with reference to the Chanting the Names of Mañjuśrī (Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti)
translation by Ryan Conlon and Stefan Mang and with the generous support
of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "jam dpal rigs lngar bstod gsol/" in 'Jam dbyangs chos
kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir, H.P.: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. (BDRC W1KG12986).
Vol. 2: 385–386

Version: 1.0-20220616
↑ These two lines are from Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti 47. See https://www.lotsawahouse.org/words-of-the-buddha/chanting-names-of-manjushri↑
These two lines are from Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti
62.↑ This line is from Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti 56↑ From Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti 140↑ From Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti
143↑ From Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti 101↑ From Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti 102↑ From
Mañjuśrī-nāma-saṅgīti 100